# Book Review of Project Hail Mary
03-19-2026

I am giving this review about a month after completing the book and a day before the movie is released. I want to start doing book reviews on here as well as video diaries that can be found on my [youtube](https://www.youtube.com/@itss_juno). I have recently become obsessed with reading **sci-fi** in particular but will soon venture back into **philosophy** as that is what started me on this journey. I wanted to start with this book but will also go into some that I read before it (The Shining being the most recent before it). I will talk about the book without spoilers first, and then offer those interested into a spoiler review later on. With that being said, I want to try my hand at a review so here it goes.

## PLOT (NO SPOILERS)
The sun is dying due to a new species called **Astrophage** that is slowly absorbing its energy. The people of Earth have determined that mankind does not have that long to live but have also found that most stars in the neighboring galaxies have also suffered this fate. All except one, **Tau Ceti**. With this knowledge in hand, earth bands together its most brilliant minds to send one last **hail mary**, an aptly named spaceship, to try and figure out what is keeping this star alive. It is up to our main character, **Ryland Grace**, to use his expertise in science to save the human race on the most important expedition in all of human history.

## My Thoughts
I'm a little bit of a nerd and I also found out that the author, **Andy Weir**, is also one himself (_obvious I know_). I really liked **The Martian** movie but never read the book. My mother actually recommended me this book and for her to recommend a _sci-fi_ book to me means that it has to be good. Now I must say, I also listened to the audio book of this, as I do with most books, because I am constantly travelling and would like to make progress while on the road. The audio book for this was absolutely spectacular as I am sure you have heard online. Props to **Ray Porter** for an incredible narration.

This book is told from different times of Dr. Grace's life. That is, it goes back in forth between present day to flashbacks of what brought him here as he suffers from amnesia. At first, I was not sure how I would feel about it. In the context of the story, it makes sense but, at the time of reading, I preferred a linear story (that has since changed). As I read, I began to see how crucial of a device this was and how amazing it turned out to be. I never thought I would be really _shocked_ by this book, but I was. Its technical explanation of things also scratched my nerdy itch _perfectly_. There were things in that regard that I could relate to that I really enjoy and is one of the reasons I love the show **Mr. Robot** so much. The pacing of the story, even going back and forth between different moments in Grace's life, was consistent and enthralling the whole way through. I did get spoiled a little bit by the trailer for the movie, but I was fairly close to that moment and it still came as a cool event while reading. 

I thought the character of Ryland Grace was a little... _odd_ at first. I will touch on the writing style later as that plays a part in it. He seemed like a, for lack of a better word, _immature_ protagonist at first. I didn't really like his style of character being quipy and not so serious most of the time but as the story progressed, it grew on me. I realized that he is basically what I think I am. A nerd who knows a lot about a lot of things and prefers not to have a stick up their ass most of the time and enjoys breaking complicated moments and tension with banter and jokes. This is the kind of writing Andy Weir has, as I have come to learn. This was also how **Mark Watney** was in The Martian and I have seen a lot of people complain about this but I sort of like it now. It kept the tense situations from being too overwhelming and made the story more fun to read through rather than depressing or technically challenging. Overall, I think he was a great character. He really grew on me and I think **Ryan Gosling** will make a great Ryland Grace (I think Andy had him in mind when creating the character I mean the names are so similar). 

Now I want to talk about the writing style. I come from reading more classical literature that has a much more stern and unessesarily complex vocabulary. When I started reading this book, I remember telling my mother, "this reads just like a movie" and I found that sort of strange. It was almost as if the book was half novel, half screenplay, and I can see why it was picked up as a movie so quickly after its release. I'm going to sound so pretentious when I say this but the writing was childish at first to me. Like I mentioned before coming from a classical literature collection to this was jarring. This was a change at first for sure, but like the character of Ryland Grace, it grew on me. Having the audio book really enhanced the visual experience that I was imagining of the story. The writing offered just enough detail to basically plot out what could be described as a set on a film studio. From then on, you can imagine the characters moving around the set and interacting with it in the same way you might play with dolls or action figures. The explanation of technology was also **perfect** in my opinion. It explained enough to let you get the general idea of what it did without boring you with paragraphs of technical jargan. I enjoyed the writing a lot and now that I have begun reading more sci-fi such as **Philip K. Dick** and **Isaac Asimov**, I like the differences each author has and their own techniques of writing. I look forward to see what Andy comes up with next.

Now, my overall satisfaction of the book and the rating I would give it. I want to describe my rating of books like my rating of beans. With baked beans being the highest (10) and Garbanzo beans being the lowest (1), I would give this book the honor of being my first **Certified Baked Bean**. Overall, the story was original and captivating, the writing and pacing was consistent and fun, and the characters were so _alive_ that it was like I had met them myself and was reminiscing on who they were. Andy Weir has won me over as a fan and I am waiting with much anticipation to see what he comes up with next. I hope the movie lives up to the book (it looks like it does based on early viewings), and I am definitely going to see it in IMAX. Thanks for reading the review. It was my first so I apologize if it's rough or missing a lot but hopefully I improve as I go. The next book I will be reviewing is **The Road** by **Cormac McCarthy**. Hope to see you there!

Till next time,
GG's gamers!