# Journaling_0.1
2-03-2026
Recently, I have dove into the hobby of journaling. I did this because I have returned to the point of the vicious cycle where I want to be super productive. I'm sure we all have those points every few months or so where we want to learn something super complicated that we are definitely not prepared for and never will use for the rest of our lives. Well I am here to say... **DO IT**!! Go out and learn that random branch of science or history that piqued your interest that one time. There is never a reason to not learn something if it interests you. Sure it might take some time and you might come to not finish learning about it but that effor that you put into it meant something to you and showed you what you're really into.

# Zettelkasten
Okay enough yapping. I have kept a small notebook with me for years. I always have carried it in my bag if I ever need to write something. Now if I'm being honest, I haven't written in it in a long time but on big occassions or life events, I'll write down whats happened so that I can go back and look at what I thought in the moment. I have things such as daily routines, my priorities at the time, my life path I wanted to take, etc.. I always feel more invested in my growth when I write these things down and it does make me want to stick with it a little longer, even if that overall time is short. While perusing youtube, I had found a video called [Obsidian: The King of Learning Tools](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hSTy_BInQs8&pp=ygUYdGFraW5nIG5vdGVzIGluIG9ic2lkaWFu2AbyCw%3D%3D). This video introduced me to a whole new world of understanding. Not just reading something and forgetting about it a few days later but really taking in information from literature and other sources. It showed me how to note take *digitally*. I would highly recommend checking it out.

With this newfound way of taking notes, I began the journey of starting my [Zettelkasten](https://zettelkasten.de/overview/), or second brain. Though I really liked this method and I was learning a lot, I just kept getting this idea in the back of my mind about when the world will eventually get hit by a large emp blast and all digital information is completely lost like the blackout in blade runner (this also includes my blogs now that I think about it). There also comes the idea of connecting it across devices and what if you don't have access to it when you have an epiphany. It was due to these thoughts that I decided to return to the original king of notes, paper.

# Traditional
After doing some research, I found a youtube channel called [ParkNotes](https://www.youtube.com/@ParkerNotes) who went into vast detail on notetaking in many different ways. I am a sucker for philosophy and concepts alike and this channel shared those interest. I scoured other parts of the platform to try and find methods of journaling or what the best journal would be and a large consensus was the **Leuchtturm 1917**. I must say, I have had this journal since March 2024 (just went back to see what all I wrote back then and it was so cringe but beautiful to me) and it has held up so well. I also made a small modification to it to add a pen holder on the side and there are a lot of mods you can really put onto this thing and it will hold up so well. When I first got it, I was finishing my Masters degree so I was using it quite often. As time went on, I strayed away from it and myself. But here recently, as I said at the beginning of this blog, I am back to the point where I want to be super productive and with that comes the journaling. 

Another thing that Parker (from ParkNotes) recommended was keeping an on the go journal like a catch all. The ones he recommended were the **Field Notes** series of notebooks. He also has a philosophy book club that I will join from the outside (just reading the books and taking my own notes). So I have decided what I am going to do is read with the field notes handy and if an idea or epiphany strike I will have it ready to jot down. Once that idea has been jotted down, I will take it back home in the big journal and expand upon it and connect it to different points of my life. Then I can write a mini-essay on the topic and store it in my Zettelkasten (and maybe upload here to this site who knows).

# Future
As of now, the journals have not come in. They should be in in a few days and once they arrive, I am going to start this perilous journey and hopefully it will go on for a while. I want to be a person that can help others with the wisdom I have obtained. That is my goal. There are so many things I want to do but I feel there is so little time. I think thats what makes learning something so special. You've decided that what you have learned was worth your time and valuable enough to put it over other desires. I hope you all come to love what you learn and help others along the way.

Till next time,
GGs gamers!