# Homelab_0.1
11-18-2025
If you have read my previous post (**NixOS_Rice.md**), you should know that I have a second pc that is running **Fedora Linux**. I have been enjoying it quite a bit but I would like to take things further with it. I knew in the past when making the second pc that there was such a thing as **selfhosting**. This was always an interest of mine but I was much too afraid to tackle it at the time. With having spent more time in Linux, I thought I might try to go ahead and set up a homelab. 

My father has something similar setup for media (things like **Plex** and such) that we use at home. I wanted to do something similar, but expand upon it. I wanted to still be able to host the minecraft server of course as well as being able to run some VMs to experiment with. Alongside this blog, I will be recording my experience messing with setting up a homelab to hopefully help others out there who might not know about this blog. I also want to show that it is not a simple straightforward task that is impossible to fail. There are a lot of people out there who watch tech videos that become discouraged because they might think that someone has a better skillset than them and can accomplish what they took forever to do in just a short amount of time. There is a great [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Uu2FQ2hW4_o) by **PrimeAgen** that covers something of this sort with the recent tech journey that PewDiePie has taken. If you ever feel you have imposter syndrome (as I have many times), please take some time to watch that video. 

To give you an idea of what I am working with, below is a list of the specs that I will be using for this home lab setup:
```
LIST OF SPECS HERE
```
According to some online research, this appears to be a pretty good setup. I must note as well, you do not _need_ a super modern setup. From what I can tell, my system is a little overkill as it is scraps from an older gaming setup. You can definitely perform just as fine on some older hardware. I encourage you really to start with something old or cheap to see if you would be interested in something like this. If you find you do, then upgrading becomes a more enticing option. But for now, we are sticking with my old gaming setup. I will try and capture screenshots of the process as well and insert them here as well as linking my youtube when I get the chance. 