# Nix\_to\_Mint
09-08-2025

Recently, I had set my laptop to be able to dual-boot **Windows 11** and **NixOS**. I had never dual-booted a system before but it was quite easy (but a little scary) to setup. Anytime I work with partitions I always fear that I am going to erase everything and the earth is going to explode. When it came to working inside NixOS, to say I was lost, in terms of customizing and altering the system to my needs, would be an understatement. The features of NixOS, being a deterministic system that allows for rollbacks in case of errors (_which I cause a lot of_), seemed like it would be perfect for me. However, I am still fairly new to linux in general and NixOS was quite confusing to me when attempting to rice. I understand I could just learn the system first and then rice but I want to be able to learn in an environment that I am confortable with. I also understand this is definitely a **skill-issue** and seeing how some people online are able to accomplish what takes me weeks in a matter of days also did not help in the learning process. That is also a lesson I would like to preach, **DON'T COMPARE YOURSELF TO OTHER DEVELOPERS/LINUX USERS!!!!** Comparison is the thief of joy and if you, a newbie like me, compare yourself to linux nerds online that have been working in it for 5+ years, _of course_ you will fall short.

I still wanted to learn in a comfortable environment however, and I was in search of a new distro. My second pc in my home setup was currently running Fedora 42 (with KDE Plasma) and I was loving it. It was close enough to Windows that I didn't feel like there was too much of a learning curve just to get comfortable. This was my top choice for what to boot on my laptop but I also wanted to try something new. **Linux Mint**, or _Lint_ as I will come to call it, was something I had my eye on as I saw it was very user friendly and works straight out of the box. What ended up sealing my decision however was Mr. Robot. I was watching it at the time of looking at the new distros and at this point I was back and forth on Fedora and Lint and then the TV gave me a sign. It pans over to Elliot's home terminal and on it, he's running Lint! At that point I knew that was what I needed.

That same night, I created a bootable drive with **Etcher** and cleaned and replaced the partition that contained NixOS. The install was very simple and straightforward. 