# Flipper_Zero
09-11-2025
<div style="text-align:center">"**Flipper Zero** is a portable multi-tool for pentesters and geeks in a toy-like body. It loves hacking digital stuff, such as radio protocols, access control systems, hardware, and more. It's fully open-source and customizable, so you can extend it in whatever way you like."</div>

During my graduate studies, I had come across someone who had a small device to show me. This small device is what you have read about above. It was a simple, stock device that could connect and access different signals and devices across a semi-large range. At the time, my understanding was that it was a glorified universal remote but nonetheless, I was interested. I had thought that I had learned as much as I could about technology. Of course, I had known there were much more advanced or specialized sections of tech out there, but never had I imagined there would be something so accessible as this small device. It really opened my eyes to see that if I really wanted to or really tried, I could get into _any_ genre of tech.

That same month, I had a device of my own. Initially, all I really used it for was for what I assumed it was at first, a glorified universal remote. I would turn on and off the tv in the living room and in our basement but that was really the extent of what I could do at the time (or my small minded approach to it). I carried it around with me all day every day hoping to encounter a reason to use it and for a while, I never found that reason. Then, I stayed at a hotel. I remembered that the flipper has the capability to scan my hotel card, and I could use it to enter my room. **This sparked my interest back up again**. So sure enough, I used the NFC scanner and got the data for my card, and was able to use it to emulate the signal and open the door to my room. At this point, I was able to feel justification for my purchase. I knew there was probably much more in store, but I was still far from learning about it.

Flash forward a few years, up until about a couple of weeks ago, I had practically forgotten about it. I was browsing in [r/Hacking](https://www.reddit.com/r/hacking/wiki/index/) (this is during the time where I am learning more about linux and more about cyber-security), when I saw someone post about their flipper. It was like a memory of a childhood toy had appeared in my mind and I went into a scramble looking for it. I eventually found my precious **_Lubinos_** (the name my flipper was given), and bought him some new clothes (see image).